# Git format-patch

Prepare patches for e-mail submission.

Prepare each non-merge commit with its "patch" in one "message" per commit, formatted to resemble a UNIX mailbox. The output of this command is convenient for e-mail submission or for use with git am.

A "message" generated by the command consists of three parts:

A brief metadata header that begins with From <commit> with a fixed Mon Sep 17 00:00:00 2001 datestamp to help programs like "file(1)" to recognize that the file is an output from this command, fields that record the author identity, the author date, and the title of the change (taken from the first paragraph of the commit log message).

The second and subsequent paragraphs of the commit log message.

The "patch", which is the "diff -p --stat" output between the commit and its parent.

The log message and the patch is separated by a line with a three-dash line.

There are two ways to specify which commits to operate on.

A single commit, <since>, specifies that the commits leading to the tip of the current branch that are not in the history that leads to the <since> to be output.

Generic <revision range> expression (see "SPECIFYING REVISIONS" section in gitrevisions[7]) means the commits in the specified range.

The first rule takes precedence in the case of a single <commit>. To apply the second rule, i.e., format everything since the beginning of history up until <commit>, use the --root option: git format-patch --root <commit>. If you want to format only <commit> itself, you can do this with git format-patch -1 <commit>.

By default, each output file is numbered sequentially from 1, and uses the first line of the commit message (massaged for pathname safety) as the filename. With the --numbered-files option, the output file names will only be numbers, without the first line of the commit appended. The names of the output files are printed to standard output, unless the --stdout option is specified.

If -o is specified, output files are created in <dir>. Otherwise they are created in the current working directory. The default path can be set with the format.outputDirectory configuration option. The -o option takes precedence over format.outputDirectory. To store patches in the current working directory even when format.outputDirectory points elsewhere, use -o .. All directory components will be created.

By default, the subject of a single patch is "[PATCH] " followed by the concatenation of lines from the commit message up to the first blank line (see the DISCUSSION section of git-commit[1]).

When multiple patches are output, the subject prefix will instead be "[PATCH n/m] ". To force 1/1 to be added for a single patch, use -n. To omit patch numbers from the subject, use -N.

If given --thread, git-format-patch will generate In-Reply-To and References headers to make the second and subsequent patch mails appear as replies to the first mail; this also generates a Message-ID header to reference.

## Options

[Options](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-format-patch#_options)

## MUA Specific Hints

[MUA Specific Hints](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-format-patch#_mua_specific_hints)

## Examples

[Examples](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-format-patch#_examples)
